# BScSpaCall
## Integrating Multimodal Transcriptomic Data to Unveil Cell-Cell Communications
Cell-cell communications (CCCs) are intricate processes through signals emitted by sending cells reach the surface of recipient cells, triggering corresponding responses that are crucial for the coordinated functioning of biological systems. The rapid development of transcriptome sequencing technologies has significantly bolstered the research in this field. While traditional bulk RNA-seq offers a wider view of the genomic landscape, it cannot reveal the gene expression and spatial patterns of individual cells. In contrast, recent advancements in spatial transcriptomics have enabled the precise mapping of gene expression and spatial information of individual cells, albeit with current limitations in detecting low-abundance transcripts. Here, we propose BScSpaCall, a multimodal transcriptomic data method for predicting CCCs, which integrates bulk RNA-seq, single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) and spatial transcriptomics (ST) data using deconvolution and spatial mapping to predict CCCs. BScSpaCall constructs an intercellular communication scoring model based on ligand and receptor expression. For the deconvoluted data, we assume that CCCs are not spatially constrained; for the single-cell atlas generated after spatial mapping with spatial coordinate positions, we construct a cell graph network based on the K-nearest neighbor method to predict spatial proximal CCCs. Then, we employ gene enrichment analysis to establish links between receptors and transcription factors, inferring intracellular communication. BScSpaCall demonstrates robust performance across both single-cell and spatial resolution, offering insights that range from intercellular interactions to the complexities of intracellular signaling mechanisms.
